File Transfer Protocol:-
ftp server is used to transfer files between server and clients. All major operating systems support ftp.
The vsftpd rpm is required to configure ftp server in RHEL. Once it is installed, you can start the service as a root user.

Install vsftp(server daemon) and ftp(client) tools:
yum install vsftpd.x86_64 ftp.x86_64 -y
Check if selinux is enabled if yes, disable the same
getenforce
setenforce 0
or
vi /etc/selinux/config
     SELINUX=disabled
-->Enable vsftpd daemon to start automatically along with server boot or reboot
  systemctl is-enabled vsftpd
  systemctl enable vsftpd
  systemctl start vsftpd
  systemctl status vsftpd
  firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-service=ftp --permanent
  firewall-cmd --reload
  firewall-cmd --zone=public --list-all
verify if the port is listening
  ss -an or ss -a
  or netstat -ntlp 
  or netstat -ntl

commonly used ftp commands:-
put : transfer file local to remote server (upload)
mput : transfter more than one file form local to remote server
get : transfter file from remote server to local (download)
mget : transfter more than one file from remote server to local
prompt : to on or off the yes or no prompt
bin : transfter in binary mode
ascii : tranfter the file in ascii mode ( clear text format, which is not best practice)
!cmd, where cmd is command (you can see all supported commands by typing help): command issued on local server ex:- !ls : files are listed locally
cd : to change directory
lcd : to change local directory
hash: Hash( #) symbols are printed while transferring the data.
help or ? : to print list of supported ftp commands.
open or open ip : used to open the connection
close: Close the connection
bye or quit : exit from ftp 
mkdir : create a directory on remote system
rmdir : remove a directory on remote system
delete : delete given file on the remote system
ls: list files in the remote system
pwd: print working directory on remote system.

Noe:- we worked accessing ftp from the browser and winscp tool from windows client. please do practice the same.
Note:- 
-->By default, root account is disabled for to use vsftpd service. So root can not login (this is due to security reasons)
-->/etc/vsftpd/ftpuser is the file where you enter list of users(one line per user), so that those users will not get access to ftp.
-->/etc/vsftpd/user-list is the file for whose username are entered into this file are also not allowed to loign from ftp and even they are not prompted for passwords.

Ananymous ftp login:- To login anonymous, username is anonymous and the password is an email address entered(email id is not validated, so, you can provide any email id such as any@any.com) to get the access.
To disable the anonymous access change below directives in /etc/vsftpd/vsftpd.conf file
anonymous_enable=NO





